The increasing tendency to abstract some anthropological or sociological 
finding from its context, and to flourish it around as if it was 
possessed of some intrinsic value as a typological fact about all human 
societies is actively injurious to history 
                 --  E P Thompson 
%
anthropology, sociology, and criminology, have evolved either as 
unhistorical disciplines, or with an inadequate historical component, or 
with an actively anti-historical bias 
                 --  E P Thompson 
%
With Max Weber, finally, the intellectual's self-negation in the morally 
neutral description of an ever more disheartening reality reached truly 
painful proportions 
                 --  Fritz K Ringer 
%
Indirect controls are most powerful because they are normalized 
                 --  Laura Nader 
%
he must be sure that his final use of the term be very different from 
its popular use; if it is not, there is a strong presumption that his 
research has been as superficial as common-sense reflection 
                 --  Florian Znaniecki 
%
C++ is a horrible language. It's made more horrible by the fact that a 
lot of substandard programmers use it, to the point where it's much much 
easier to generate total and utter crap with it. Quite frankly, even if 
the choice of C were to do *nothing* but keep the C++ programmers out, 
that in itself would be a huge reason to use C 
                 --  Linus Torvalds 
%
rich people like books 
                 --  FT 
%
The tradition of established mathematicians sometimes letting junior 
colleagues take credit for what was really joint work is the opposite of 
what happens in many other areas of science, especially in experimental 
fields.… It was arguably poetic justice when in a few notorious cases a 
paper turned out to be fraudulent, and then the lab director, who was 
often a well-known scientist, regretted having been a coauthor 
                 --  Neal Koblitz 
%
There is perhaps no other human occupation in which men claiming to be 
possessed of the power of thought behave more like sheep than that of 
scholarship 
                 --  Joshua Whatmough 
%
I knew not to try to quantify key aspects other than climate change in 
my research because it would dilute the story that prestigious journals 
like Nature and its rival, Science, want to tell.… The authors should 
ignore – or at least downplay – practical actions that can counter the 
impact of climate change 
                 --  Patrick T Brown 
%
Those who please may, and many do sign, and others who give no name are 
as well known as if they did; but as a general rule the absence of the 
name is, I am satisfied, best. It tends to brevity – it obviates 
personalities – it allows a freer intercommunication of opinion and 
criticism.… If we were all to give our names, Notes and Queries would, 
in three weeks, be a cock-pit! 
                 --  N. &amp; Q. 
%
Mere teaching, like mere literature, places a man, I think, in rather an 
equivocal position 
                 --  Thomas Arnold 
%
I confess that I do not like the idea of giving a man an income which 
would by itself be sufficient to make work unnecessary, and telling him 
to devote himself to research as he pleases.… the temptation to 
desultory research must in every case be very great, and desultory 
research, however it may amuse or benefit the investigator, seldom adds 
much to the real stock of human knowledge.… If we would provide for 
research it must, so far as History is concerned, be done by paying for 
results 
                 --  William Stubbs 
%
Bohr and Heisenberg couldn’t discover a mechanical explanation so, to 
save face, they decided that the problem was categorically insoluble.… 
But they went even further. They decided that this decision of theirs 
was final, and they all but forbade anyone from seeking for a solution 
after that. They could not pass a law, of course, so they did the next 
best thing. They created a cult. Anyone who continued to seek a 
mechanical explanation was ridiculed and ostracized 
                 --  Miles Mathis 
%
critical reading occurs whenever a reader has a stake in the writer's 
topic 
                 --  Charles Bazerman 
%
entre Auteurs on ne se regarde pas tant comme mariez, ou comme peres, 
que comm faisant des livres. La Republique des Lettres n'entre point 
dans les mariages, ni dans les accouchemens, ce font des choses qui ne 
lui servent de rien 
                 --  Bayle 
%
