the prime movers of the Gothic revival had not looked to the proper 
theories, which was not the revival of this or that particular style but 
the revival of art itself, the recovery of an artistic way of doing 
things, of the true artistic temper which would work unconsciously, 
naturally, and therefore beautifully 
                 --  Thomas Graham Jackson 
%
if those whom we call Architects have to learn to handle not only the 
compasses and square but the brush, the chisel and the modelling tool, 
those whom we call Painters and Sculptors must learn how to create as 
well as to decorate ... Henceforth then instead of Architects, Painters 
and Sculptors, let us have Artists, men who practise not this or that 
form of art but Art itself 
                 --  Thomas Graham Jackson 
%
Skilled draughtsmanship is less admired today, replaced by ephemeral 
computer-generated imagery; its demise surely accounts in part for the 
contemporary decline in taste and seemliness in design? 
                 --  Donald Buttress 
%
the arts have been imprisoned by dealers 
                 --  William Lethaby 
%
The fact is, exhibitionist portraits do not make house portraits, nor 
gallery pictures room pictures, nor popular successes food for human 
joy.… Too many pictures are merely professional products.… this 
exhibitionism is one of many symptoms of ‘the sickness of acquisitive 
society’ 
                 --  William Lethaby 
%
The only serious designs that I have seen during and since the war which 
dared to touch the note of nobility have been in the comic press. Here 
the artist may still speak without the exhibition standard in his mind 
or the fear of dealers in his heart.… In great epochs of civilization 
many of these comic-paper cartoons would have been thought worthy to be 
put into public frescoes and mosaics for speech with the people: now 
that paintings may only be seen behind barriers by paying gate-money, 
there is ‘no demand for that sort of thing’. It is difficult to maintain 
an ideal in a deal! 
                 --  William Lethaby 
%
looking back on the exhibitions and press reviews, the collections and 
dispersals at Christie’s, it is easy to see that it [Art] has been 
mainly regulated by dealers and provided as a background for financiers’ 
dinner parties. When its history comes to be written it will doubtless 
be called dealer’s art 
                 --  William Lethaby 
%
the handicrafts were cultivated in old days for the adornment of human 
life, and to add to the pleasurableness of home; and a museum fails to 
convey this fact. A museum is a place for odds and ends; for things that 
have drifted; for the flotsam and jetsam of the wrecked homes of old 
humanity 
                 --  John D Sedding 
%
We have no principles, no unity; the architect, the upholsterer, the 
paper stainer, the weaver, the calico-printer and the potter, run each 
their independent course; each struggles fruitlessly, each produces in 
art novelty without beauty or beauty without intelligence 
                 --  Owen Jones 
%
the extreme division and subdivision of art in the present day is one of 
the most baneful features of it – one of those which most cramp the 
artist, mislead the public, and cripple the powers of art itself.... The 
healthy and progressive periods of art have been those in which an 
artist for one thing was intrinsically an artist for anything 
                 --  William Rossetti 
%
Flaubert’s advice was to hew to convention in personal matters, the 
better to be fierce and original in work. But the average person doesn’t 
do anything artistic for work. What is it to be a fierce and original 
loss adjuster? 
                 --  FT 
%
You don't get help by going to rich and famous people for advice. Nor do 
you get it by trying to hex the gods with some spell. You get it by 
putting yourself in a position to Nature or the gods where they want to 
help you without being asked. They have to like you, and they don't like 
creepy money-grubbers who are always asking them for cash or cars or 
power. They like people who have high ideals and who are pursuing 
worthy, unselfish goals, against all odds. They like people who thank 
the gods, rather than doubting them or blaming them or haranguing them 
or asking them for undeserved boons. As I have said before, it is not 
what the gods can do for you, it is what you can do for the gods. You 
are their servants, not the reverse 
                 --  Miles Mathis 
%
man muss etwas von seiner Moralität aufopfern, um solchergestalt der 
Mode gefällig zu sein. Wie völlig ohne Grösse sind diese einzigen neuen 
Pariser Bauten! 
                 --  Burckhardt 
%
Bisweilen sind auch Poeten höchst politisch. Aber wann? Bei Befreiungs- 
und volkstümlichen Revolutionskämpfen, Ländern junger Kultur, neu 
entstehenden Staaten, wo alles noch im romantischen Stadium des 
hoffnungsvollen, noch nicht durch mühsame Arbeitsteilung und technische 
Routine zerlegten Keimens ist … Sobald die soziale Erstarrung beginnt, 
sobald die Politik ein Geschäft oder ein arbeitsteiliges Berufsfach 
wird, schweigen in ihr die Poeten, gehen sie abseits oder kämpfen gegen 
den Leviathan 
                 --  Leopold von Wiese 
%
It is like the old question, is it better to love or be loved? Because 
it isn't a toss-up. There is a right answer there, and it isn't even 
close, though most people seem to get it wrong. The Phoenicians want to 
be loved, which is why they become movie stars and celebrities. They 
need that attention. But they soon find out it is empty, because it is 
far better to love than be loved. Loving gives you depth while only 
being loved tends to make you shallow. All art comes from loving, not 
from being loved, which is why these people can't create art. They only 
create simulacra of art, empty shells of creativity which have no 
center. 
                 --  Miles Mathis 
%
The concept of an educated man being allowed by this society to work 
with his hands is relatively new, and the credit for this must go at 
least in part to Dolmetsch and William Morris. Perhaps to punish society 
for this long delayed and grudgingly given permission, the educated man 
takes rather a cavalier attitude toward the business aspect of his craft 
                 --  Wallace Zuckermann 
%
Joyce and Stein along with Picasso, Van Gogh, Cézanne and similar 
degenerates, as being just so much garbage that ought to be shipped to a 
reducing plant 
                 --  Oldfather 
%
Of the couples where one partner earns vastly more, the other tends to 
bring cultural clout, grander relatives, a handy passport or some such 
equaliser. (Looks are of insufficient strategic value to close the gap.) 
                 --  FT 
%
we perhaps have the elements of a mutually beneficial manufacturing 
venture 
                 --  Farkas 
%
On the question of "what critics" – I'm sorry to sound terse, but – who 
cares? And why do you? I'm a filmmaker, not an academic. I'm interested 
in analyzing principles of creative process as a practical matter. Such 
information is relevant only to the extent that it helps me and my crew 
do our jobs better 
                 --  Peter Chung 
%
here's a friendly word of advice if you ever are in a dialogue with a 
working filmmaker in the future: When they express their views based on 
their experience actually working in the field, you don't challenge them 
and ask that they cite the words of "critics" to back themselves up 
                 --  Peter Chung 
%
If all the critics and all their books were to disappear tomorrow, 
filmmakers would still make films and their works would still hold the 
same value as before. The most interesting and useful writing on film 
appreciation, are the words of filmmakers on other filmmakers. Critics' 
careers hang on the works of filmmakers – not the other way around. 
Critics live and feed by the graces of artists. That's why you don't ask 
an artist to justify his ideas by citing critics. To me, the question is 
offensive 
                 --  Peter Chung 
%
Künstler sollen nicht Diener, sondern Priester des Publikums sein 
                 --  Brahms 
%
The relative brevity of poetry, combined with the longer time it takes 
to write, would in general seem to make it peculiarly unsuited to 
payment by the sheet, and peculiarly suited to a system of patronage, if 
only because many patrons may be presumed to be even more chary of their 
time than of their money 
                 --  Ian Watt 
%
The New Yorker has a longstanding tradition of squalor with which I am 
loath to interfere 
                 --  William Shawn 
%
A good restaurant will, like The Economist, which has no online 
comments, maintain a polite distance from the audience 
                 --  FT 
%
His suggestion was that I should annex to the contract, not a sum of 
money but a catalogue of penalties, viz. that if the plates be not 
delivered by the right time you [Johnston] be boiled in oil until your 
ligatures melt & you suffer the loss of your majuscules 
                 --  Stanley Morison 
%
You & Mrs Bridges, put me on the track of the Half-Uncial, as you may 
remember, long ago, when you gave me a copy of Maunde Thompson’s Greek & 
Latin Palæography 
                 --  Edward Johnston 
%
Unless the design arises out of the actual construction of a thing it is 
reduced to the level of extraneous ornamentation. Design, in fact, is 
inherent rather than applied 
                 --  Edward Johnston 
%
πάντες ὅσοι περιττοὶ γεγόνασιν ἄνδρες ἢ κατὰ φιλοσοφίαν ἢ πολιτικὴν ἢ 
ποίησιν ἢ τέχνας φαίνονται μελαγχολικοὶ ὄντες 
                 --  Aristotle 
%
Morris spoke or raged to the vast College of Trinity as if we were all 
ignorant Philistines, when, as a matter of fact, we included the best 
instructed men in Cambridge. Jebb, a Glasgow Professor, was always 
capable of wit and did not repeat his telling remarks, like some of his 
colleagues 
                 --  Vernon Rendall 
%
Nothing is easier in painting, in art, in literature, than to encode or 
baffle.… this method is the refuge of the charlatan, the pseud, and the 
modestly talented 
                 --  William Boyd 
%
His dedication was therefore an instance of servile absurdity, to be 
exceeded only by Joshua Barnes's dedication of a Greek Anacreon to the 
Duke 
                 --  Samuel Johnson 
%
I am back at work fighting Papists, Fascists and historians. I am 
becoming speechless over Spain, Palestine, Irak and Germany. Everybody 
is very kind to me and pays not the slightest attention 
                 --  Josiah Wedgwood IV 
%
