Lexicography is about cooperative teamwork and is not suited to 
competitive individual scholarship 
                 --  Anne Thompson 
%
Under him [Edward Thring] success in examination was not the great 
object of school training. His care and interest extended beyond the 
clever boy to the average boy and the backward or stupid boy. His theory 
was that every boy is good for something, and he made it his business to 
find out what that was. It was the first school where workshops were 
introduced, and where a boy whose scholarship was beyond hope could 
develop a natural turn, if he had it, for making things with his hands 
                 --  Thomas Graham Jackson 
%
Firth in fact wrote relatively little, but he was active in encouraging 
his colleagues to publish; he would seize on a topic … and get someone 
else to work it up 
                 --  R H Robins 
%
Power without political competition corrupts absolutely 
                 --  WSJ 
%
In Wahrheit ist es … eine typische und besonders intensive Art und 
Weise, Politik zu treiben, daß man den Gegner als politisch, sich selbst 
als unpolitisch (d.h. hier: wissenschaftlich, gerecht, objektiv, 
unparteiisch usw.) hinstellt 
                 --  Carl Schmitt 
%
He [Momigliano] would be the unique example in the modern history of 
classical scholarship of a great male scholar taught by women. Or did he 
simply fear male rivals and sought comfort in a series of adoring women 
disciples? 
                 --  William M Calder III 
%
Most scarcity is artificial … because a prized status has been set up 
where none existed before 
                 --  Alfie Kohn 
%
Hard workers do not need them [prizes/honours], and laggards do not 
respond to them 
                 --  F C Gates 
%
breaking down an argument to its smallest pieces, rebutting them one by 
one, is a self-defense tactic used by those who cannot afford to adjust 
their position in the slightest 
                 --  Amos Wenger 
%
Those who please may, and many do sign, and others who give no name are 
as well known as if they did; but as a general rule the absence of the 
name is, I am satisfied, best. It tends to brevity – it obviates 
personalities – it allows a freer intercommunication of opinion and 
criticism.… If we were all to give our names, Notes and Queries would, 
in three weeks, be a cock-pit! 
                 --  N. &amp; Q. 
%
If a college desires to have what is called a man of research, I am not 
sure but the best way to obtain him would be to choose him without 
examination. There are not I believe many men worthy of such distinction 
who are not already marked out by work done 
                 --  William Stubbs 
%
Neither in penetration nor in skill was he [Leo] an emendator of the 
first rank: he could restore with ease and felicity a new-found remnant 
of Menander which had only been edited by a Frenchman, but a 
much-laboured field like the text of Juvenal would yield no harvest to 
his husbandry; and he was hampered in addition by peculiarly awkward 
circumstances. Where I had pointed out a fault and proposed a remedy, it 
was necessary for him, after recognising the fault, to propose a remedy 
different from mine 
                 --  Housman 
%
