The fact is, exhibitionist portraits do not make house portraits, nor 
gallery pictures room pictures, nor popular successes food for human 
joy.… Too many pictures are merely professional products.… this 
exhibitionism is one of many symptoms of ‘the sickness of acquisitive 
society’ 
                 --  William Lethaby 
%
The only serious designs that I have seen during and since the war which 
dared to touch the note of nobility have been in the comic press. Here 
the artist may still speak without the exhibition standard in his mind 
or the fear of dealers in his heart.… In great epochs of civilization 
many of these comic-paper cartoons would have been thought worthy to be 
put into public frescoes and mosaics for speech with the people: now 
that paintings may only be seen behind barriers by paying gate-money, 
there is ‘no demand for that sort of thing’. It is difficult to maintain 
an ideal in a deal! 
                 --  William Lethaby 
%
looking back on the exhibitions and press reviews, the collections and 
dispersals at Christie’s, it is easy to see that it [Art] has been 
mainly regulated by dealers and provided as a background for financiers’ 
dinner parties. When its history comes to be written it will doubtless 
be called dealer’s art 
                 --  William Lethaby 
%
the handicrafts were cultivated in old days for the adornment of human 
life, and to add to the pleasurableness of home; and a museum fails to 
convey this fact. A museum is a place for odds and ends; for things that 
have drifted; for the flotsam and jetsam of the wrecked homes of old 
humanity 
                 --  John D Sedding 
%
A force de se faire redemander tous, l’ovation, devenue banale, a perdu 
toute sa valeur 
                 --  Berlioz 
%
the Catholic does not, like the Rousseauist, confess himself from the 
housetops 
                 --  Irving Babbitt 
%
Il me paraît absurde que vous médisiez de l'harmonie, parce que vous ne 
la connaissez pas et que votre rival y excelle 
                 --  Castil-Blaze 
%
Every dic­ta­tor­ship has weak­nesses that could be­come its un­do­ing. 
It doesn’t mat­ter how much pomp is on dis­play at the par­ty’s 
reg­u­larly sched­uled meet­ings. It doesn’t mat­ter which leader comes 
out on top or who is most in­sis­tent on hold­ing on to power. It’s all 
an il­lu­sion 
                 --  WSJ 
%
It is like the old question, is it better to love or be loved? Because 
it isn't a toss-up. There is a right answer there, and it isn't even 
close, though most people seem to get it wrong. The Phoenicians want to 
be loved, which is why they become movie stars and celebrities. They 
need that attention. But they soon find out it is empty, because it is 
far better to love than be loved. Loving gives you depth while only 
being loved tends to make you shallow. All art comes from loving, not 
from being loved, which is why these people can't create art. They only 
create simulacra of art, empty shells of creativity which have no 
center. 
                 --  Miles Mathis 
%
[Logic] an art that does not admit of parade in its proper use 
                 --  Mahaffy 
%
Vanity, not avarice, is my ruling passion 
                 --  Housman 
%
It’s true that the British army still has cavalrymen, even though they 
can’t charge the Taliban on horseback 
                 --  James Meek 
%
Women are no longer distinctive in order to have their pictures shown in 
the great fashion magazines 
                 --  John de Lancie 
%
as soon as any one begins to confess to the public, all the real depth 
and intimacy of his experience vanishes, generally to make way for 
exhibitions of morbid vanity 
                 --  Mahaffy 
%
how artfully Frank Crowninshield, the editor at that time, combined the 
seduction of visual glamour with the edge of cultural and social 
commentary 
                 --  T Brown 
%
You can say something of substance in a paper or a magazine, but radio 
and television interviews do little more than cater to the vanity of the 
writer 
                 --  William Shawn 
%
the invention of the book conspicuously failed to abolish the academic 
lecture 
                 --  Keith Thomas 
%
Penn dragged me to every single news outlet that asked for an interview 
and sent a Penn communications person with me to make sure I said the 
right things. It was, like, ‘Oh, yay, Penn has a Black Rhodes Scholar 
with dead parents who grew up working class.’ 
                 --  The New Yorker 
%
One way of squaring these opposing impulses – the bibliophobic, the 
aspirational – is to give things that aren’t books the intellectual 
status of books.… The hype around the podcast is the latest stage in 
this face-saving for the non-reader 
                 --  FT 
%
As lawyers’ place in society, and their status vis-à-vis their clients, 
have dropped, they have been driven to acquire more property.… Unless we 
significantly reduce the number of lawyers as a percentage of the 
population, thereby cutting back the legal process, lawyers will not 
regain their once respected place in our society 
                 --  Laurence H. Silberman 
%
As poor countries sprouted a commercial overclass, their mimicry took 
the form of consuming the “best” Old World brands. But it comes down to 
the same thing: self-doubt, at the national and cultural level. The 
luxury trade isn’t evil. But it is sad. There is something pathetic, in 
the original sense of the word, about a certain kind of global luxe 
living: marble floors, white furniture, champagne flutes, too-strong 
fragrances, restaurants with handbag stools. It is not the visual 
naffness. It is the imitation of an aesthetic that is held in ironic 
disdain in its home market 
                 --  FT 
%
Americanism: Using money you haven’t earned to buy things you don’t need 
to impress people you don’t like 
                 --  Robert Quillen 
%
I was in his [Coleridge’s] company for about an hour, but find it 
impossible to recall the largest part of his discourse, which was often 
like so many printed paragraphs in his book, – perhaps the same, – so 
readily did he fall into certain commonplaces. As I might have foreseen, 
the visit was rather a spectacle than a conversation, of no use beyond 
the satisfaction of my curiosity. He was old and preoccupied, and could 
not bend to a new companion and think with him 
                 --  Emerson 
%
hunting has for long been something that the nouveau riche knows he 
should do in order to be U 
                 --  Alan S C Ross 
%
the too studious Affectation of bare and sterile Antiquitie, which is 
nothing els but to be exceeding busie about nothing, may soon descend to 
a Dotage 
                 --  Selden 
%
