the spirit of an age may not only be reflected in its prose, it may be, 
indeed it is, to some extent conditioned by it 
                 --  Bonamy Dobrée 
%
if pupil numbers fall, we close schools instead of taking advantage of 
reduced class sizes, whilst if numbers rise, we just increase class 
sizes as opposed to increasing school capacity 
                 --  FT 
%
L’ère des scholiastes et commentateurs se rouvre et recommence 
                 --  Sainte-Beuve 
%
the patient inexhaustible industry, spending itself on the collection of 
facts, with which we are familiar as the main literary feature of our 
own time 
                 --  Henry Nettleship 
%
In France … the learning and language of Greece and Rome were neglected 
by a philosophic age 
                 --  Gibbon 
%
It is one of the grotesque faults of our specialised culture that one is 
disgraced if one ignores the latest German dissertation, but can easily 
get away without knowledge of St. Augustine or Machiavelli 
                 --  Momigliano 
%
men are supposed to succeed in life by dead knowledge, or by 
acquaintance with business 
                 --  Mahaffy 
%
A lesser paradox of our times is that men and women are declared learned 
for having written long essays unfit to publish 
                 --  Mark Lindley 
%
The decline of repeats testifies, above all, to the move away from 
patterned music to a more dramatic language which forbids the recurrence 
of events. With more emphasis on continuity and with aesthetic beliefs 
which pressed music more and more into the mould of narrative, novel or 
tract, the parallel with prose became more insistent 
                 --  Hugh MacDonald 
%
If it be true, that the present age is more corrupt than the preceding, 
the great multiplication of Novels has probably contributed to its 
degeneracy 
                 --  Vicesimus Knox 
%
writing is converted to a mechanic trade; and booksellers, instead of 
the great, become the patrons and paymasters of men of genius 
                 --  Goldsmith 
%
Isn’t it a fact that Greek has disappeared from the House of Commons? 
                 --  Kenneth Sisam 
%
what physics is about is reality … physics (science) can explore only 
part of reality, and by far the smaller part. That kind of thought is 
now virtually forbidden in scientific literature 
                 --  George Wald 
%
As lawyers’ place in society, and their status vis-à-vis their clients, 
have dropped, they have been driven to acquire more property.… Unless we 
significantly reduce the number of lawyers as a percentage of the 
population, thereby cutting back the legal process, lawyers will not 
regain their once respected place in our society 
                 --  Laurence H. Silberman 
%
One day one of my masters caught me reading (in class!) a notebook 
containing texts in my favourite artificial language, called Amtosh, and 
confiscated it. I understand that the masters then held a conference, as 
a result of which the German master, Mr Fritschi, volunteered to teach 
me Latin one-on-one 
                 --  W Keith Percival 
%
The purpose of the aristocrat is most emphatically not to work for 
money. His ancestors may have worked in order to amass the fortune which 
he enjoys … but he will seldom do the same. When money is there he 
spends it on maintaining himself in his station. When it is no longer 
there he ceases to spend, he draws in his horns.… Americans relate all 
effort, all work, and all of life itself to the dollar.… In England, 
public business is its own reward, nobody would go into Parliament in 
order to become rich, neither do riches bring public appointments 
                 --  Nancy Mitford 
%
